# read-and-think
Collection for my readings and musings


## Healthcare
<cite> * "What’s so bad about fee-for-service health care?" | https://thecannononline.com/whats-so-bad-about-fee-for-service-health-care/?utm_campaign=The%20Daily%20Cannon&utm_medium=email&_hsmi=201823420&_hsenc=p2ANqtz--0uhBePQ8lzF_ZpKYrWuEhU1z_0IXNO63yzuM6US57rZILvvGUBp0amZaUNHzOh10bT5pe3XmqLjqtx6zouTg100oiHw&utm_content=201823420&utm_source=hs_email</cite>
> The present health care system in the United States bears little resemblance to 1926. The once transparent, agreed-upon fees between patient and physician have all but disappeared. Today, payment is no longer agreed to by the patient and the physician. Payment is primarily negotiated between insurers and other payers and not available for patients to see. The rates are not determined by real world market forces, but by formula or by funding levels. Even worse, fees and payments are constrained by coding guidelines and rules such as CPT and ICD-10. Bureaucrats working for such government agencies as HCFA, COBRA, FDA, DHHS, Medicare, and Medicaid, etc. continue to replace freedom in medicine with complex and unintelligible statistical models attempting to determine the “true medical needs” of present and future generations of Americans (2), and the prices for them.
>
> Many health policy intellectuals have continually sounded the alarm that medicine suffers from “market failure,” and does not adhere to the same laws of economics as other sectors of our society. This is often accepted without question. It is believed that only through government intervention can health care become optimized to meet the needs of society. In 1963, Nobel Prize winner Kenneth Arrow reinforced this view when he wrote “Uncertainty and the Welfare Economics of Medical Care.” As time has shown, the problem with Arrow’s theory is that idealized competitive models don’t hold up well under real world conditions.
> As Milton Friedman put it simply, “The hardest thing in the world to understand is that people operating separately, through their joint relations with one another, through market transactions, can achieve a greater degree of efficiency and of output than can a single central planner.”
